The framework we proposed in our 2024 paper, and that is used in this web app follows three simple steps of what we have called the ‘robustness assessing framework.’ The first step is what we defined as the “observable” which is a point clustering metric and the quantity whose changes we measure when considering deviations. In this case, this is the model resulting from a Pair Correlation Function (PCF) with a Monte Carlo simulation envelope based on 100% of the dataset used as input (the dataset should be in the shapefile format and consist of a series of georeferenced points, in addition to a georeferenced polygon of the research area). The web app will provide the result of the ‘observable’ and this will be used as a reference value for the second step.
The second step is ‘the experiment’ where regular intervals of data will be sampled from the loaded dataset. More precisely, the app will deduct 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, and 50% of the database’s sites and perform the PCF again with a Monte Carlo simulation envelope for each of the sampled groups. The resulting models are what we have called the ‘robustness scenarios.’ Note that in our paper we used two sampling methods, one using a uniform distribution and another one using an inhomogeneous distribution. To make the web app work optimally, we decided to only provide the sampling via the uniform distribution. If a more experienced researcher would like to access the code and consider the inhomogeneous distribution, please check out the original code <a href="https://osf.io/u2gyq/" target="_blank">here</a>.
The third step consist of the ‘comparison tools’, which are methods to assess the frequencies and interval midpoint densities. The comparison tools is the step that will allow the analyst to assess the robustness and quantify the uncertainty of the spatial models created based on their dataset. More information about this step in the “Results” section.
